Skip directly to search <#searchTarget> Skip directly to A to Z list

<#azTab> Skip directly to page options

<#share-bar> Skip directly to site content

<#contentArea>
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven.
Saving Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People
<https://www.cdc.gov/>
Start of Search Controls <#>
Search Form Controls

Cancel

Submit

Search the CDC

CDC A-Z Index <#>

  * MENU <#>
  * CDC A-Z <#>
  * SEARCH <#>

  * A

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/a.html>
  * B

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/b.html>
  * C

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/c.html>
  * D

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/d.html>
  * E

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/e.html>
  * F

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/f.html>
  * G

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/g.html>
  * H

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/h.html>
  * I

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/i.html>
  * J

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/j.html>
  * K

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/k.html>
  * L

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/l.html>
  * M

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/m.html>
  * N

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/n.html>
  * O

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/o.html>
  * P

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/p.html>
  * Q

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/q.html>
  * R

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/r.html>
  * S

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/s.html>
  * T

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/t.html>
  * U

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/u.html>
  * V

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/v.html>
  * W

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/w.html>
  * X

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/x.html>
  * Y

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/y.html>
  * Z

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/z.html>
  * #

    <https://www.cdc.gov/az/0.html>

Start of Search Controls <#>
Search Form Controls

Cancel

Submit

Search the CDC


  Marburg hemorrhagic fever (Marburg HF)
  <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/index.html>

Recommend on Facebook

<http://api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/facebook/offer?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Fmarburg%2Findex.html&title=Marburg%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%20(Marburg%20HF)%20%7C%20CDC&description=&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/images/marburg-distribution-map.jpg>
Tweet

<http://api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/twitter/offer?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Fmarburg%2Findex.html&title=Marburg%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%20(Marburg%20HF)%20%7C%20CDC&description=&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/images/marburg-distribution-map.jpg>
Share

<#socialMediaShareContainer>

  * Share via TwitterTwitter

    <http://api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/twitter/offer?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Fmarburg%2Findex.html&title=Marburg%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%20(Marburg%20HF)%20%7C%20CDC&description=&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/images/marburg-distribution-map.jpg>
  * Share via FacebookFacebook

    <http://api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/facebook/offer?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Fmarburg%2Findex.html&title=Marburg%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%20(Marburg%20HF)%20%7C%20CDC&description=&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/images/marburg-distribution-map.jpg>
  * Share via PinterestPinterest

    <https://www.pinterest.com/pin/create/button/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Fmarburg%2Findex.html&media=https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/images/marburg-distribution-map.jpg&description=&hashtags=>
  * Share via LinkedInLinkedIn

    <http://api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/linkedin/offer?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Fmarburg%2Findex.html&title=Marburg%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%20(Marburg%20HF)%20%7C%20CDC&description=&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/images/marburg-distribution-map.jpg>
  * Share via EmailEmail

    <http://api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/email/offer?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Fmarburg%2Findex.html&title=Marburg%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%20(Marburg%20HF)%20%7C%20CDC&description=&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/images/marburg-distribution-map.jpg>
  * Share via DiggDigg

    <http://api.addthis.com/oexchange/0.8/forward/digg/offer?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Fmarburg%2Findex.html&title=Marburg%20Hemorrhagic%20Fever%20(Marburg%20HF)%20%7C%20CDC&description=&via=CDCgov&ct=0&media=https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/images/marburg-distribution-map.jpg>
  *
    /

    /Add this to your site

    <https://tools.cdc.gov/medialibrary/index.aspx#/sharecontent/https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cdc.gov%2Fvhf%2Fmarburg%2Findex.html>

Marburg virus was first recognized in 1967, when outbreaks of
hemorrhagic fever occurred simultaneously in laboratories in Marburg and
Frankfurt, Germany and in Belgrade, Yugoslavia (now Serbia). Thirty-one
people became ill, initially laboratory workers followed by several
medical personnel and family members who had cared for them. Seven
deaths were reported. The first people infected had been exposed to
imported African green monkeys or their tissues while conducting
research. One additional case was diagnosed retrospectively.

The reservoir host of Marburg virus is the African fruit bat, /Rousettus
aegyptiacus/. Fruit bats infected with Marburg virus do not to show
obvious signs of illness. Primates (including humans) can become
infected with Marburg virus, and may develop serious disease with high
mortality. Further study is needed to determine if other species may
also host the virus.

Continue reading more about
Marburg…(https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/about.html)
<https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/about.html>

  *


          Transmission

    Spread through bodily fluids of a person who is sick with or has
    died from Marburg...
    (https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/transmission/index.html)

    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/transmission/index.html>
  *


          Signs and Symptoms

    Symptoms may appear anywhere from 5 to 10 days after exposure to
    Marburg...
    (https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/symptoms/index.html)

    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/symptoms/index.html>
  *


          Risk of Exposure

    During outbreaks of Marburg, those at highest risk include
    healthcare workers and family...
    (https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/exposure/index.html)

    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/exposure/index.html>
  *


          Outbreaks

    List of all current and past outbreaks, outbreak chronology and
    references...
    (https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/outbreaks/index.html)

    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/outbreaks/index.html>

  *


          Diagnosis

    Diagnosing Marburg is difficult as signs and symptoms are similar to
    more frequent infectious diseases...
    (https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/diagnosis/index.html)

    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/diagnosis/index.html>
  *


          Treatment

    The treatment of Marburg presents many challenges... there are few
    established prevention measures...
    (https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/treatment/index.html)

    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/treatment/index.html>
  *


          Prevention

    Those at highest risk include healthcare workers and the family and
    friends of an infected individual...
    (https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/prevention/index.html)

    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/prevention/index.html>
  *


          Resources

    Outbreak Resources, Viral Hemorrhagic Fever (VHF) Information for
    Specific Groups, References...
    (https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/resources/index.html)

    <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/resources/index.html>

Marburg HF Outbreak Distribution Map
(https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/outbreaks/distribution-map.html)

<https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/outbreaks/distribution-map.html>

Marburg HF Outbreak Distribution
Map(https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/outbreaks/distribution-map.html)
<https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/outbreaks/distribution-map.html>

Factsheet: Marburg Hemorrhagic Fever
(https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/pdf/factsheet.pdf)

<https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/pdf/factsheet.pdf>

Factsheet: Marburg Hemorrhagic Fever[PDF – 3
pages](https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/pdf/factsheet.pdf)
<https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/pdf/factsheet.pdf>


      Marburg hemorrhagic fever <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/index.html>

  * About Marburg <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/about.html>
  * Outbreaks <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/outbreaks/index.html>
    expand <#>
      o Outbreak Summaries 2005-2014
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/outbreaks/summaries.html>
        expand <#>
          + 2014 Marburg Hemorrhagic Fever Outbreak in Uganda
            <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/outbreaks/uganda/2014-oct.html>
      o Outbreaks Chronology 1967-2014
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/outbreaks/chronology.html>
      o Outbreak Distribution Map
        <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/outbreaks/distribution-map.html>
  * Transmission <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/transmission/index.html>
  * Signs and Symptoms <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/symptoms/index.html>
  * Risk of Exposure <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/exposure/index.html>
  * Diagnosis <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/diagnosis/index.html>
  * Treatment <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/treatment/index.html>
  * Prevention <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/prevention/index.html>
  * Resources <https://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/resources/index.html>


          File Formats Help:

How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site?
<https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/>

  * Adobe PDF file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#pdf>
  * Microsoft PowerPoint file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#ppt>
  * Microsoft Word file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#doc>
  * Microsoft Excel file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#xls>
  * Audio/Video file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#wmv>
  * Apple Quicktime file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#qt>
  * RealPlayer file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#ram>
  * Text file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#text>
  * Zip Archive file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#zip>
  * SAS file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#sas>
  * ePub file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#epub>
  * RIS file <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/plugins/#ris>

  * Page last reviewed: December 1, 2014
  * Page last updated: December 1, 2014
  * Content source:
      o Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
        <https://www.cdc.gov/index.htm>
        National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases
        (NCEZID) <https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/dw-index.html>
        Division of High-Consequence Pathogens and Pathology (DHCPP)
        <https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/dhcpp/index.html>
        Viral Special Pathogens Branch (VSPB)
        <https://www.cdc.gov/ncezid/dhcpp/vspb/index.html>

  * Email

    <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/emailupdates>
  * Recommend

    <https://www.facebook.com/CDC>
  * Tweet

    <https://twitter.com/CDCgov>
  * YouTube

    <https://www.youtube.com/user/CDCstreamingHealth>
  * Instagram

    <https://www.instagram.com/CDCgov/>

  * Listen

    <https://www2c.cdc.gov/podcasts>
  * Watch

    <https://www.cdc.gov/cdctv>
  * RSS

    <https://www2c.cdc.gov/podcasts/rss.asp>

  *


    ABOUT

      o About CDC <https://www.cdc.gov/about/default.htm>
      o Jobs <https://jobs.cdc.gov/>
      o Funding <https://www.cdc.gov/funding>

  *


    LEGAL

      o Policies <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/policies.html>
      o Privacy <https://www.cdc.gov/Other/privacy.html>
      o FOIA <https://www.cdc.gov/od/foia>
      o No Fear Act <https://www.cdc.gov/eeo/nofearact/index.htm>
      o OIG <https://oig.hhs.gov/>

  *
    1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA 30329-4027 USA
    800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636), TTY: 888-232-6348
    Email CDC-INFO <https://wwwn.cdc.gov/dcs/RequestForm.aspx>

  *
    U.S. Department of Health & Human Services <https://www.hhs.gov/>
    HHS/Open <https://www.hhs.gov/open>
    USA.gov <https://www.usa.gov/>

TOP
