  *
    MedicineNet.com <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/hp.asp>
  * <https://www.facebook.com/MedicineNet>
  * <https://twitter.com/medicinenet>
  * NEWSLETTERS
  *

  * Disease &
    Conditions<https://www.medicinenet.com/diseases_and_conditions/article.htm>

      o Conditions A-Z
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/diseases_and_conditions/article.htm>
      o Procedures A-Z
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/procedures_and_tests/article.htm>
      o Allergies <https://www.medicinenet.com/allergies/focus.htm>
      o Alzheimer's <https://www.medicinenet.com/alzheimers/focus.htm>
      o Arthritis <https://www.medicinenet.com/arthritis/focus.htm>
      o Asthma <https://www.medicinenet.com/asthma/focus.htm>
      o Blood Pressure
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/high_blood_pressure/focus.htm>
      o Cancer <https://www.medicinenet.com/cancer/focus.htm>
      o Cholesterol <https://www.medicinenet.com/cholesterol/focus.htm>
      o Chronic Pain <https://www.medicinenet.com/chronic_pain/focus.htm>
      o Cold & Flu <https://www.medicinenet.com/cold_and_flu/focus.htm>
      o Depression <https://www.medicinenet.com/depression/focus.htm>
      o Diabetes <https://www.medicinenet.com/diabetes/focus.htm>
      o Digestion <https://www.medicinenet.com/digestion/focus.htm>
      o Eyesight <https://www.medicinenet.com/eyesight/focus.htm>
      o Health & Living
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/health_and_living/focus.htm>
      o Healthy Kids <https://www.medicinenet.com/healthy_kids/focus.htm>
      o Hearing & Ear <https://www.medicinenet.com/hearing/focus.htm>
      o Heart <https://www.medicinenet.com/heart/focus.htm>
      o HIV/AIDS <https://www.medicinenet.com/hiv/focus.htm>
      o Infectious Disease
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/infectious_disease/focus.htm>
      o Lung Conditions <https://www.medicinenet.com/lungs/focus.htm>
      o Menopause <https://www.medicinenet.com/menopause/focus.htm>
      o Men's Health <https://www.medicinenet.com/mens_health/focus.htm>
      o Mental Health <https://www.medicinenet.com/mental_health/focus.htm>
      o Migraine <https://www.medicinenet.com/migraine/focus.htm>
      o Neurology <https://www.medicinenet.com/neurology/focus.htm>
      o Oral Health <https://www.medicinenet.com/oral_health/focus.htm>
      o Pregnancy <https://www.medicinenet.com/pregnancy/focus.htm>
      o Senior Health <https://www.medicinenet.com/senior_health/focus.htm>
      o Sexual Health <https://www.medicinenet.com/sexual_health/focus.htm>
      o Skin Problems <https://www.medicinenet.com/skin/focus.htm>
      o Sleep <https://www.medicinenet.com/sleep/focus.htm>
      o Thyroid <https://www.medicinenet.com/thyroid/focus.htm>
      o Travel Health <https://www.medicinenet.com/travel_health/focus.htm>
      o Women's Health <https://www.medicinenet.com/womens_health/focus.htm>
  * Slideshows<https://www.medicinenet.com/slideshows/article.htm>


            Surprising Health Benefits of Sex

    How would you like a stronger immune system or better sleep? Action
    between the sheets can help you get all of this and more.

    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=122404>
      o *All Slideshows*
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/slideshows/article.htm>
      o Newest Slideshows
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/slideshows-popular/article.htm>
      o Pet Health Slideshows
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/slideshows-picks/article.htm>
  * Images<https://www.medicinenet.com/image_collection/article.htm>


            Psoriasis Medical Images

    Red, itchy, and scaly skin? Discover common skin conditions like
    psoriasis, rashes, and more in the collection of medical photos.

    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=107525>
      o Allergic Skin Disorders
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=107517>
      o Bacterial Skin Diseases
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=106753>
      o Bites and Infestations
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=120800>
      o Diseases of Pigment
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=109861>
      o Fungal Skin Diseases
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=107837>
      o Medical Anatomy and Illustrations
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=105631>
      o Noncancerous, Precancerous & Cancerous Tumors
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=107539>
      o Oral Health Conditions
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=120152>
      o Papules, Scales, Plaques and Eruptions
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=107525>
      o Scalp, Hair and Nails
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=107851>
      o Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=120794>
      o Vascular, Lymphatic and Systemic Conditions
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=106752>
      o Viral Skin Diseases
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=107516>
      o Additional Skin Conditions
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=113903>
  * Quizzes<https://www.medicinenet.com/quizzes_a-z_list/article.htm>


            Take the Sex & Love Quiz!

    The brain. The body. The bedroom. How much do you know about sex,
    love, and the human body?

    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=119180>
      o *Happiness* - Test your emotional IQ
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/happiness_quiz/quiz.htm>
      o *Superfoods* - Are you eating enough?
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/superfoods_quiz/quiz.htm>
      o *Fat and Fats* - What do you know about fat?
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/fat_and_fats_quiz/quiz.htm>
      o *Skin Pictures* - Can you identify these conditions?
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/skin_conditions_picture_quiz/quiz.htm>
      o *Chronic Fatigue Syndrome* â€“ What do you know about CFS?
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=125353>
  * Symptom Checker
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/symptoms_and_signs/article.htm>
  * Health &
    Living<https://www.medicinenet.com/health_and_living/focus.htm>


            The No-Diet Approach

    Lose weight without dieting! Live better and be healthier with these
    quick nutritional tips from the experts.

    <https://www.medicinenet.com/weight_loss/article.htm>
      o Diet & Weight Management
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/diet_and_weight_management/article.htm>
      o Exercise & Fitness
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/exercise_and_fitness/article.htm>
      o Nutrition, Food & Recipes
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/nutrition_food_and_recipes/article.htm>
      o Prevention & Wellness
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/prevention_and_wellness/article.htm>
  * Medications<https://www.medicinenet.com/medications/article.htm>
      o Medications <https://www.medicinenet.com/medications/article.htm>
      o Supplements and Vitamins
        <https://www.medicinenet.com/supplements-vitamins/article.htm>
  * MedTerms Dictionary
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/medterms-medical-dictionary/article.htm>
  * Pet Health <https://www.medicinenet.com/pets/pethealth/focus.htm>

home <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/hp.asp> / infectious
disease health center
<https://www.medicinenet.com/infectious_disease/focus.htm> / infectious
disease a-z list
<https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/alphaidx.asp?p=a_63> / marburg
virus history, symptoms, and treatment center
<https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/forum.asp?articlekey=184498> /
marburg virus history, symptoms, and treatment article


  Marburg Virus Disease

  *

  * Marburg virus disease facts <#marburg_virus_disease_facts>
  * What is Marburg virus disease? <#what_is_marburg_virus_disease>
  * What causes Marburg disease? <#what_causes_marburg_disease>
  * What are the *symptoms* and signs of Marburg infection? What is the
    incubation period for a Marburg virus infection?
    <#what_are_the_symptoms_and_signs_of_marburg_infection_what_is_the_incubation_period_for_a_marburg_virus_infection>
  * What are risk factors for getting Marburg infections?
    <#what_are_risk_factors_for_getting_marburg_infections>
  * How do health-care professionals diagnose Marburg viral infections?
    <#how_do_health-care_professionals_diagnose_marburg_viral_infections>
  * What *treatment* is available for Marburg virus infections?
    <#what_treatment_is_available_for_marburg_virus_infections>
  * What specialists treat Marburg infections?
    <#what_specialists_treat_marburg_infections>
  * Is it possible to prevent Marburg virus infections?
    <#is_it_possible_to_prevent_marburg_virus_infections>
  * What is the prognosis for a Marburg virus infection? What
    complications may occur with Marburg infections?
    <#what_is_the_prognosis_for_a_marburg_virus_infection_what_complications_may_
    occur_with_marburg_infections>
  * What research is ongoing about Marburg virus infections?
    <#what_research_is_ongoing_about_marburg_virus_infections>
  * Why is Africa now seeing so many cases of what were relatively rare
    viral diseases like Ebola and Marburg virus infections?
    <#why_is_africa_now_seeing_so_many_cases_of_what_were_relatively_rare_viral_
    diseases_like_ebola_and_marburg_virus_infections>

  * Medical Author: Charles Patrick Davis, MD, PhD
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=85199>
    Charles Patrick Davis, MD, PhD


            Charles Patrick Davis, MD, PhD

    Dr. Charles "Pat" Davis, MD, PhD, is a board certified Emergency
    Medicine doctor who currently practices as a consultant and staff
    member for hospitals. He has a PhD in Microbiology (UT at Austin),
    and the MD (Univ. Texas Medical Branch, Galveston). He is a Clinical
    Professor (retired) in the Division of Emergency Medicine, UT Health
    Science Center at San Antonio, and has been the Chief of Emergency
    Medicine at UT Medical Branch and at UTHSCSA with over 250 publications.

  * Medical Editor: Melissa Conrad StÃ¶ppler, MD
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=41529>
    Melissa Conrad StÃ¶ppler, MD


            Melissa Conrad StÃ¶ppler, MD

    Melissa Conrad StÃ¶ppler, MD, is a U.S. board-certified Anatomic
    Pathologist with subspecialty training in the fields of Experimental
    and Molecular Pathology. Dr. StÃ¶ppler's educational background
    includes a BA with Highest Distinction from the University of
    Virginia and an MD from the University of North Carolina. She
    completed residency training in Anatomic Pathology at Georgetown
    University followed by subspecialty fellowship training in molecular
    diagnostics and experimental pathology.

<#>

Bacterial Infections 101 Pictures Slideshow

  *

    Bacterial Infections 101 Pictures Slideshow

    <https://www.medicinenet.com/bacterial_infections_101_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

  *

    Take the Tummy Trouble Quiz

    <https://www.medicinenet.com/tummy_trouble_quiz/quiz.htm>
  *

    Hepatitis C Slideshow Pictures

    <https://www.medicinenet.com/hepatitis_c_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>


  * Marburg Virus Disease Center
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/marburg_virus_history_symptoms_and_treatment/index.htm>
  * Bacterial Infections 101 Pictures Slideshow
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/bacterial_infections_101_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
  * Take the Tummy Trouble Quiz
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/tummy_trouble_quiz/quiz.htm>
  * Hepatitis C Slideshow Pictures
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/hepatitis_c_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

  * Marburg virus disease facts <#marburg_virus_disease_facts>
  * What is Marburg virus disease? <#what_is_marburg_virus_disease>
  * What causes Marburg disease? <#what_causes_marburg_disease>
  * What are the *symptoms* and signs of Marburg infection? What is the
    incubation period for a Marburg virus infection?
    <#what_are_the_symptoms_and_signs_of_marburg_infection_what_is_the_incubation_period_for_a_marburg_virus_infection>
  * What are risk factors for getting Marburg infections?
    <#what_are_risk_factors_for_getting_marburg_infections>
  * How do health-care professionals diagnose Marburg viral infections?
    <#how_do_health-care_professionals_diagnose_marburg_viral_infections>
  * What *treatment* is available for Marburg virus infections?
    <#what_treatment_is_available_for_marburg_virus_infections>
  * What specialists treat Marburg infections?
    <#what_specialists_treat_marburg_infections>
  * Is it possible to prevent Marburg virus infections?
    <#is_it_possible_to_prevent_marburg_virus_infections>
  * What is the prognosis for a Marburg virus infection? What
    complications may occur with Marburg infections?
    <#what_is_the_prognosis_for_a_marburg_virus_infection_what_complications_may_
    occur_with_marburg_infections>
  * What research is ongoing about Marburg virus infections?
    <#what_research_is_ongoing_about_marburg_virus_infections>
  * Why is Africa now seeing so many cases of what were relatively rare
    viral diseases like Ebola and Marburg virus infections?
    <#why_is_africa_now_seeing_so_many_cases_of_what_were_relatively_rare_viral_
    diseases_like_ebola_and_marburg_virus_infections>

*

*


      Marburg virus disease facts

  * Share Your Story
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/submit-patient-comments.asp?questionid=5284>


  * Marburg virus disease is endemic in Africa (likely in African green
    monkeys and certain bats) and can be transmitted to humans.
  * The disease can be transmitted from person to person by exposure to
    blood and other bodily secretions.
  * Marburg virus disease is caused by viruses
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/viral_infections_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
    that produce symptoms of fever
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/aches_pain_fever/article.htm>, chills
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/chills/symptoms.htm>, headaches
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/headache/article.htm> and muscle aches
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/aches_pain_fever/article.htm> early in
    the disease; symptoms worsen and may lead to hemorrhagic fever
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/fever/symptoms.htm> and death.
  * Risk factors include exposure to African green monkeys and certain
    bats; in addition, exposure to an infected human is high risk factor.
  * The diagnosis of Marburg virus disease is usually done by
    specialized laboratories.
  * Treatment is limited to supportive care, usually in an
    intensive-care unit.
  * Specialists that may be consulted include critical-care specialists,
    infectious-disease specialists, hematologists, lung specialists, and
    others.
  * Prevention of Marburg viral disease involves avoiding contact with
    African animals that may carry the disease and using strict
    isolation procedures to avoid any bodily fluids or tissues from
    humans infected with Marburg viruses.
  * The prognosis for Marburg virus disease is only fair to poor;
    fatality rates vary from about 23%-90%.
  * Complications of Marburg virus infections include eye, nerve, and
    bleeding problems.
  * Research is ongoing; Africa is experiencing more problems with viral
    diseases as humans increase their contact with African animals that
    previously had little contact with humans.

*

*


      What is Marburg virus disease?

In 1967, laboratory workers, all in the same lab in Marburg, Germany,
were hospitalized with an unknown disease. The laboratory workers were
exhibiting the same symptoms, including fever, diarrhea
<https://www.medicinenet.com/diarrhea/article.htm>, vomiting
<https://www.medicinenet.com/nausea_and_vomiting/article.htm>, massive
bleeding from many different organs, shock
<https://www.medicinenet.com/shock/article.htm>, and collapse of the
circulatory system. In this outbreak, 31 people were infected, and seven
died. The source of the infection was traced to a virus infecting
African green monkeys that were imported from Uganda, Africa, and were
being used for polio
<https://www.medicinenet.com/polio_facts/article.htm> vaccine research.
This new virus was eventually designated as a new virus family termed
/Filoviridae/. The other members of the family are Ebola
<https://www.medicinenet.com/ebola_hemorrhagic_fever_ebola_hf/article.htm>
viruses (five different species). /Filoviridae/ contain one
negative-sense RNA strand and have a covering or envelope composed of a
lipid
<https://www.medicinenet.com/cholesterol_levels_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
membrane. The disease Marburg virus causes is termed Marburg virus disease.

The most recent outbreaks of Marburg virus disease have occurred in
Uganda. In 2012, 15 individuals were diagnosed and four people died (27%
fatality rate). Again, the Ugandan Ministry of Health reported on Oct.
5, 2014, that a health-care worker died of Marburg virus disease
(formerly known as Marburg hemorrhagic fever [Marburg HF]) on Sept. 30,
2014. The source of his exposure is not clear. This is of interest since
Marburg virus is a close relative of the Ebola virus
<https://www.medicinenet.com/ebola_hemorrhagic_fever_ebola_hf/article.htm>,
and both produce clinical signs and symptoms that are often
indistinguishable. Health officials said that about 80 people who were
in contact with the man who died have been identified and are being were
observed for 21 days for signs and symptoms of the disease. No one else
contracted the disease.


  Quick GuideSymptoms of Mono: Infectious Mononucleosis Treatment

Symptoms of Mono: Infectious Mononucleosis Treatment	

woman thinking
From WebMD Logo
Tips to Better Manage Your Migraine
Start Now
<https://www.webmd.com/migraines-headaches/migraine-assessment/default.htm>

*

*


      What causes Marburg disease?

Marburg and Ebola viruses are considered to be zoonotic infections
(transmitted to humans from life cycles in other animals). Although it
is unclear as to which animals contain both Marburg and Ebola, it is
thought that both may be transmitted to humans from monkeys and/or bats
(African fruit bat and /Rousettus/ bat). There is no evidence for any
insect vectors. Although it is unclear how humans contract these viruses
from other animals (perhaps by eating them or by contamination of animal
body fluids), it is clear that human-to-human transfer occurs by direct
contact with an infected person's bodily fluids (for example, saliva,
tears, excretions, vomitus, and blood). The Marburg viruses are not
thought to be spread by air droplets.

*

*


      What are the *symptoms* and signs of Marburg infection? What is
      the incubation period for a Marburg virus infection?

  * Share Your Story
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/submit-patient-comments.asp?questionid=5282>


The symptoms of Marburg virus infection usually come on suddenly after
an incubation period of about five to 10 days. Early symptoms are as
follows:

  * Fever
  * Chills
  * Headache <https://www.medicinenet.com/headache/article.htm>
  * Muscle aches

About five days after the symptoms first occur, other symptoms may occur
as follows:

  * A rash <https://www.medicinenet.com/rash/article.htm> occurs on the
    chest, back, and stomach in some individuals.
  * Nausea <https://www.medicinenet.com/nausea_and_vomiting/article.htm>
  * Vomiting <https://www.medicinenet.com/vomiting/symptoms.htm>
  * Chest pain <https://www.medicinenet.com/chest_pain/article.htm>
  * Sore throat
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/sore_throat_pharyngitis/article.htm>
  * Abdominal pain
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/abdominal_pain_causes_remedies_treatment/article.htm>
  * Diarrhea
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/diarrhea_digestive_problem_food_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
    may appear.

Symptoms continue and can become severe; they include the following:

  * Jaundice
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/image-collection/jaundice_picture/picture.htm>
  * Pancreatic inflammation
  * Severe weight loss <https://www.medicinenet.com/weight_loss/article.htm>
  * Delirium <https://www.medicinenet.com/delirium/symptoms.htm>
  * Liver
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/liver_anatomy_and_function/article.htm>
    failure
  * Massive hemorrhaging with organ dysfunction

The case fatality rate (death rate
<https://www.medicinenet.com/grief_bereavement_mourning_quiz/quiz.htm>)
ranges from about 23%-90% of infected individuals. Many of the symptoms
are similar to those of other infectious diseases such as Ebola, malaria
<https://www.medicinenet.com/malaria_facts/article.htm>, typhoid fever
<https://www.medicinenet.com/typhoid_fever/article.htm>, and others; so
diagnostic tests are useful to rule out other causes of the symptoms.
People exposed to Marburg virus usually show signs of infection no later
than about 14 days after exposure, but because the clinical symptoms
resemble Ebola virus
<https://www.medicinenet.com/ebola_virus_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
disease, most people are placed in isolation for 21 days.

Picture: A woman with Marburg virus infection has a rash on her back
Picture: A woman with Marburg virus infection has a rash
<https://www.medicinenet.com/rash/symptoms.htm> on her back; SOURCE: CDC

*

*


      What are risk factors for getting Marburg infections?

People at risk are those who come in contact with African monkeys (bush
meat means meat from monkeys) and bats; individuals who do research on
these viruses are also at higher risk of becoming infected. There have
been several outbreaks in Africa in miners due to their exposure to
bats. Veterinarians may also be at higher risk if they are exposed to
African monkeys. Also, people who care for Marburg virus-infected
patients and/or health workers who remove those bodies of deceased
Marburg virus-infected patients are at high risk of contracting the disease.

*

*


      How do health-care professionals diagnose Marburg viral infections?

The diagnosis is usually not made from clinical findings; however,
during outbreaks, clinical findings should trigger health-care
professionals to isolate patients who may have symptoms of Marburg virus
infection. There are laboratory tests including polymerase chain
reaction
<https://www.medicinenet.com/pcr_polymerase_chain_reaction/article.htm>
(PCR
<https://www.medicinenet.com/pcr_polymerase_chain_reaction/article.htm>)
and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA
<https://www.medicinenet.com/elisa_tests/article.htm>) that can detect
the Marburg virus later in the course of the disease. These help
distinguish Marburg viruses from others that cause Ebola and Lassa fever
<https://www.medicinenet.com/lassa_fever/article.htm>.

*

*


      What *treatment* is available for Marburg virus infections?

  * Share Your Story
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/submit-patient-comments.asp?questionid=5283>


Like Ebola and many other viral diseases, there is no specific treatment
for Marburg virus disease. Patients are given supportive hospital care
by maintaining their fluid and electrolyte balance and other
considerations, such as replacing lost blood and maintaining a good
oxygen supply. This supportive care is most effectively done in an
intensive-care hospital unit. There are no home remedies to treat
Marburg virus infections.

*

*


      What specialists treat Marburg infections?

Most individuals with Marburg virus infections are treated in hospitals
in the intensive-care units. Specialists who treat the patient are
critical-care specialists, hematologists, infectious-disease
specialists, hospitalists, and lung specialists.


  Quick GuideSymptoms of Mono: Infectious Mononucleosis Treatment

Symptoms of Mono: Infectious Mononucleosis Treatment	

*

*


      Is it possible to prevent Marburg virus infections?

There is no antiviral drug or vaccine approved for use in humans against
Marburg viruses. Preventive measures are based on barrier techniques
(isolation techniques) that isolate the infected patient from other
humans. Those health-care professionals who treat Marburg virus-infected
patients must use barrier protections such as gowns, gloves, masks, and
shoe coverings; most experts say the best barrier is a hazmat suit and a
well-informed person who knows how to decontaminate a hazmat suit.

*

*


      What is the prognosis for a Marburg virus infection? What
      complications may occur with Marburg infections?

The prognosis for Marburg infection ranges from fair to poor. The
fatality rate varies from about 23%-90%. Individuals cared for in an
intensive-care unit have a better chance of survival. Complications that
can occur with Marburg infection include the following:

  * Retinitis (inflammation of the retinas of the eyes)
  * Orchitis (inflammation of the testes)
  * Hepatitis <https://www.medicinenet.com/viral_hepatitis/article.htm>
    (liver inflammation)
  * Uveitis <https://www.medicinenet.com/uveitis/article.htm>
    (inflammation within he pigmented layer of the eye)
  * Transverse myelitis (inflammation of a segment of the spinal cord)
  * Encephalitis (brain inflammation)

*

*


      What research is ongoing about Marburg virus infections?

Research about these viruses is ongoing. Sarepta Therapeutics has been
developing the RNA-interfering drug termed AVI-7288. This drug is
targeted against the nucleocapsid protein of the virus, and the company
has reported infection protection in monkeys ranging from 83%-100% when
given four days after the monkeys were infected with Ebola. This drug is
undergoing a phase 1 safety trial that began in May 2014. Another
company, Tekmira Pharmaceuticals from British Columbia, has a lipid
nanoparticle that interferes with the RNA replication of this virus. It
too has shown protection against Marburg virus infection in monkeys.
This drug is termed TKM-Marburg (also termed NP-718m-LNP).

*

*


      Why is Africa now seeing so many cases of what were relatively
      rare viral diseases like Ebola and Marburg virus infections?

There are several main reasons that researchers postulate for an increase:

  * Destruction of habitats of monkeys and bats bring humans into close
    contact with those animals that harbor these viruses in the wild.
  * Poor economies have left many African people destitute so that some
    of them hunt, kill, and eat wild animals like monkeys (bush meat).
  * Even in countries with poor economies, a few major cities have
    hospitals and those individuals who are sick are brought in from
    isolated villages and, if not diagnosed and isolated, spread the
    disease inadvertently to other humans.

Africa has undergone the worst outbreak of hemorrhagic fever caused by
Ebola virus that it has ever seen (2014-2015, with about 28,610
suspected and/or confirmed infections and 11,380 deaths). For the first
time, patients had become infected outside of Africa. It is
disconcerting that yet another hemorrhagic fever caused by Marburg virus
may enter this potentially lethal arena.

Medically reviewed by Robert Cox, MD; American Board of Internal
Medicine with subspecialty in Infectious Disease

REFERENCES:

Pigott, David C. "CBRNE -- Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers." Medscape.com. Mar.
30, 2015. <http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/830594-overview>.

United States. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "Marburg
Hemorrhagic Fever (Marburg HF)." Apr. 7, 2014.
<http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/index.html>.

United States. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "Viral
Hemorrhagic Fevers (VHFs)." Apr. 7, 2014.
<http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/virus-families/filoviridae.html>.


  Quick GuideSymptoms of Mono: Infectious Mononucleosis Treatment

Symptoms of Mono: Infectious Mononucleosis Treatment	


      Daily Health News

  * Tough Flu Season Ahead
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=208768>
  * Birth Control and Breast Cancer
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=208779>
  * Alzheimer's Cases to Double
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=208785>
  * Drug Approved for Type 2 Diabetes
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=208743>
  * New Breast Cancer Drug
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=208769>
  * XML Health News Feed <https://www.medicinenet.com/rss/dailyhealth.xml>


      Trending on MedicineNet

  * Type 2 Diabetes Diet
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/diabetic_diet_for_type_2_diabetes/article.htm>
  * Breast Cancer
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/breast_cancer_facts_stages/article.htm>
  * Influenza (Flu) <https://www.medicinenet.com/influenza/article.htm>
  * Spinal Cord Injury
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/spinal_cord_injury_treatments_and_rehabilitation/article.htm>
  * Are You Too Sick to Work?
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/are_you_too_sick_to_work/article.htm>


      From WebMD Logo


          Infectious Disease Resources

  * 8 Serious HIV Symptoms to Watch For
    <https://www.webmd.com/hiv-aids/hiv-best-life-17/treat-hiv-symptoms>
  * Is It a Cold, Strep, or Tonsillitis?
    <https://www.webmd.com/oral-health/guide/sore-throat-cold-strep-throat-tonsillitis>
  * Tips to Prevent Cold Sores
    <https://www.webmd.com/skin-problems-and-treatments/cold-sores-treat-16/video-prevent-cold-sores>


          Featured Centers

  * How Could You Live Better With Migraine?
    <https://www.webmd.com/migraines-headaches/migraine-assessment/default.htm>
  * Not Being Defined by Your Cancer
    <https://www.webmd.com/breast-cancer/advanced-bc-17/video-breast-cancer-reflection-robin-roberts>
  * Track Cold & Flu in Your Area
    <https://symptoms.webmd.com/cold-flu-map/default.htm>


          Health Solutions From Our Sponsors

  * Penis Curved When Erect
    <https://www.webmd.com/peyronies-treatment-option/treatment-option>
  * Bent Fingers
    <https://www.webmd.com/dupuytrens-contracture-treatment/dupuytrens-contracture>



      Subscribe to MedicineNet's General Health Newsletter

By clicking Submit, I agree to the MedicineNet's Terms & Conditions &
Privacy Policy
<https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=12507> and
understand that I may opt out of MedicineNet's subscriptions at any time.

  * Marburg Virus Disease Center
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/marburg_virus_history_symptoms_and_treatment/index.htm>

/Reviewed on 3/31/2017/
References
Medically reviewed by Robert Cox, MD; American Board of Internal
Medicine with subspecialty in Infectious Disease

REFERENCES:

Pigott, David C. "CBRNE -- Viral Hemorrhagic Fevers." Medscape.com. Mar.
30, 2015. <http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/830594-overview>.

United States. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "Marburg
Hemorrhagic Fever (Marburg HF)." Apr. 7, 2014.
<http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/marburg/index.html>.

United States. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "Viral
Hemorrhagic Fevers (VHFs)." Apr. 7, 2014.
<http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/virus-families/filoviridae.html>.


      Related Article

<https://www.medicinenet.com/tummy_trouble_quiz/quiz.htm>


    Stomach Pain Quiz: Nausea & Other Causes

Learn about digestive diseases and stomach problems such as acid reflux,
GERD, gas, Crohn's disease, gall stones, and ulcerative colitis. Learn
symptoms, causes, diagnosis, and treatments.

Read more: Stomach Pain Quiz: Nausea & Other Causes

<https://www.medicinenet.com/tummy_trouble_quiz/quiz.htm>


      Patient Comments

  * Marburg Virus Disease - Symptoms and Signs

    What symptoms and signs did you experience with Marburg virus disease?

    Post

    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/submit-patient-comments.asp?questionid=5282>

  * Marburg Virus Disease - Treatment

    What treatment did you receive for Marburg virus disease?

    Post

    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/submit-patient-comments.asp?questionid=5283>

  * Marburg Virus Disease - Experience

    Please share your experience with Marburg virus disease.

    Post

    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/submit-patient-comments.asp?questionid=5284>



      Top Marburg Virus History, Symptoms, and Treatment Related Articles

Complete List

<https://www.medicinenet.com/marburg_virus_history_symptoms_and_treatment/index.htm>


  *


            Abdominal Pain (Causes, Remedies, Treatment)

    Abdominal pain can have many causes that range from mild to severe.
    Some of these causes include bloating, gas, colitis, endometriosis,
    food poisoning, GERD, IBS (irritable bowel syndrome), ovarian cysts,
    abdominal adhesions, diverticulitis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative
    colitis, gallbladder disease, liver disease, and cancers.

    Signs and symptoms of the more serious causes include dehydration,
    bloody or black tarry stools, severe abdominal pain, pain with no
    urination or painful urination.

    Treatment for abdominal pain depends upon the cause.
     <https://www.medicinenet.com/abdominal_pain_causes_remedies_treatment/article.htm>
  *


            Aches, Pain, Fever

    Although a fever technically is any body temperature above the
    normal of 98.6 F (37 C), in practice, a person is usually not
    considered to have a significant fever until the temperature is
    above 100.4 F (38 C). Fever is part of the body's own
    disease-fighting arsenal; rising body temperatures apparently are
    capable of killing off many disease-producing organisms.
     <https://www.medicinenet.com/aches_pain_fever/article.htm>
  *


            Bioterrorism

    Bioterrorism is a form of terrorism where there is the intentional
    release of biological agents such as viruses, germs, or bacteria.
    Diseases caused by bioterrorism agents include anthrax, botulism,
    plague, smallpox, tularemia, brucellosis, food poisoning, Q fever,
    ricin toxin poisoning, cholera, epidemic typhus, viral encephalitis,
    XDR TB, and MDR TB.
     <https://www.medicinenet.com/bioterrorism/article.htm>
  *


            Diarrhea

    Diarrhea is a change is the frequency and looseness of bowel
    movements. Symptoms associated with diarrhea are cramping, abdominal
    pain, and the sensation of rectal urgency. Causes of diarrhea
    include viral, bacterial, or parasite infection, gastroenteritis,
    food poisoning, and drugs. Absorbents and anti-motility medications
    are used to treat diarrhea.
     <https://www.medicinenet.com/diarrhea/article.htm>
  *


            ELISA Tests

    ELISA stands for "enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay." This is a
    rapid immunochemical test that involves an enzyme (a protein that
    catalyzes a biochemical reaction). It also involves an antibody or
    antigen (immunologic molecules).
     <https://www.medicinenet.com/elisa_tests/article.htm>
  *


            Headache

    Headaches can be divided into two categories: primary headaches and
    secondary headaches. Migraine headaches, tension headaches, and
    cluster headaches are considered primary headaches. Secondary
    headaches are caused by disease. Headache symptoms vary with the
    headache type. Over-the-counter pain relievers provide short-term
    relief for most headaches.
     <https://www.medicinenet.com/headache/article.htm>
  *


            Jaundice in Adults

    Jaundice (hyperbilirubinemia) in adults may be caused by a variety
    of medical diseases or conditions. Some cases of jaundice can be
    managed at home with a doctor's supervision, while other causes of
    jaundice may be life-threatening. Symptoms of jaundice are:
      o Yellow skin
      o Yellowing of the whites of the eyes
      o Pale colored stools
      o Dark urine
      o Itchy skin
      o Vomiting
      o Nausea
      o Rectal bleeding

    Treatment of jaundice is focused on the disease or condition that is
    causing jaundice.
     <https://www.medicinenet.com/jaundice_in_adults/article.htm>
  *


            PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction)

    PCR (polymerase chain reaction) is a method to analyze a short
    sequence DNA or RNA. PCR (polymerase chain reaction) has many uses,
    for example, it is used to diagnose genetic diseases, establish
    paternity or biological relationships, DNA fingerprinting, DNA
    forensics, and finding bacteria and viruses.
     <https://www.medicinenet.com/pcr_polymerase_chain_reaction/article.htm>
  *


            Rash

    The word "rash" means an outbreak of red bumps on the body. The way
    people use this term, "a rash" can refer to many different skin
    conditions. The most common of these are scaly patches of skin and
    red, itchy bumps or patches all over the place.
     <https://www.medicinenet.com/rash/article.htm>
  *


            Sore Throat (Pharyngitis)

    Sore throats are generally described as pain or discomfort in the
    throat area. A sore throat may be caused by:
      o bacterial infections,
      o viral infections,
      o toxins,
      o irritants,
      o trauma, or
      o injury to the throat area.
    Common symptoms of a sore throat include a fever, cough, runny nose,
    hoarseness, earaches, sneezing, and body aches. Home remedies for a
    sore throat include warm soothing liquids and throat lozenges. OTC
    remedies for a sore throat include OTC pain relievers such as
    ibuprofen or acetaminophen. Antibiotics may be necessary for some
    cases of sore throat.
     <https://www.medicinenet.com/sore_throat_pharyngitis/article.htm>


      Popular Collections

Beware of Deadly Bug Bites & Stings
<https://www.medicinenet.com/bad_bugs_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Recognize These Common Eye Conditions
<https://www.medicinenet.com/eye_diseases_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Natural Cold & Flu Remedies
<https://www.medicinenet.com/natural_cold_flu_remedies_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Managing Blood Sugar Swings
<https://www.medicinenet.com/reasons_for_blood_sugar_swings_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Cholesterol: What the Numbers Mean
<https://www.medicinenet.com/lowering_cholesterol_15_tips_slideshow/article.htm>

Omega-3 Foods for a Stronger Heart
<https://www.medicinenet.com/omega-3_fatty_acids_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Low-T and Erectile Dysfunction
<https://www.medicinenet.com/low_testosterone_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Joint Friendly Exercises
<https://www.medicinenet.com/rheumatoid_arthritis_exercises_slideshow/article.htm>

The Most Effective Birth Control
<https://www.medicinenet.com/birth_control_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Lung Cancer Stages & Treatments
<https://www.medicinenet.com/lung_cancer_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Migraine Triggers You Can Avoid
<https://www.medicinenet.com/headache_and_migraine_triggers_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Why Heart Attacks Happen
<https://www.medicinenet.com/heart_disease_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Foods to Help You Concentrate
<https://www.medicinenet.com/brain_foods_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Your Cancer Questions Answered
<https://www.medicinenet.com/cancer_101_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Stop Wrecking Your Teeth
<https://www.medicinenet.com/habits_that_wreck_your_teeth_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

The Dangers of Blood Clots
<https://www.medicinenet.com/deep_vein_thrombosis_dvt_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Learn More About Eating Disorders
<https://www.medicinenet.com/binge_eating_disorder_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Surgery or Medication for Crohn's?
<https://www.medicinenet.com/crohns_disease_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>


      Featured Slideshows
      <https://www.medicinenet.com/slideshows/article.htm>

  * Protect Your Eyesight: Warning Signs of Common Eye Conditions

    Protect Your EyesightWarning Signs of Common Eye Conditions
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/eye_diseases_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

  * Migraine or Headache, What's the Difference?

    Migraine or HeadacheWhat's the Difference?
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/migraine_headaches_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

  * Psoriasis: See what it looks like and how to treat it

    PsoriasisSee What It Looks Like and How to Treat It
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/psoriasis_symptoms_treatment_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>


ADHD in Adults: Signs, Cause, and Management
ADHD in Adults
<https://www.medicinenet.com/adhd_in_adults_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Bad Bugs: Identify Bug Bites From Mosquitos, Spiders and More
What Bit Me?
<https://www.medicinenet.com/bad_bugs_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Crohn's Disease Causes, Symptoms, Diet
What is Crohn's Disease?
<https://www.medicinenet.com/crohns_disease_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Common Sore Throat vs. Strep Throat
Strep Throat vs. Sore Throat
<https://www.medicinenet.com/sore_throat_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Type 2 Diabetes Diagnosis, Treatment, Medication
Warning Signs of Type 2 Diabetes
<https://www.medicinenet.com/type_2_diabetes_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Rheumatoid Arthritis Symptoms and Treatment
Easing Rheumatoid Arthritis Pain
<https://www.medicinenet.com/rheumatoid_arthritis_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Migraine or Headache? Migraine Symptoms, Triggers, Treatment
Know Your Migraine Triggers
<https://www.medicinenet.com/migraine_headaches_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Lung Cancer Symptoms, Stages, Treatment
The Stages of Lung Cancer
<https://www.medicinenet.com/lung_cancer_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Hepatitis C (Hep C) Symptoms and Treatment
Who's at Risk for Hepatitis C?
<https://www.medicinenet.com/hepatitis_c_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Binge Eating Disorder: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment, Recovery
When is Binge Eating a Disorder?
<https://www.medicinenet.com/binge_eating_disorder_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Low Testosterone (Low-T) in Men: Causes, Symptoms & Treatments
Low-T: A Normal Part of Aging?
<https://www.medicinenet.com/low_testosterone_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Schizophrenia: Symptoms, Types, Causes, and Treatment
Schizophrenia and Mental Health
<https://www.medicinenet.com/schizophrenia_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Symptoms, Treatment
The Effects of Multiple Sclerosis
<https://www.medicinenet.com/multiple_sclerosis_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Heart Disease: Symptoms, Signs, and Causes
The World's No. 1 Killer
<https://www.medicinenet.com/heart_disease_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Ulcerative Colitis Symptoms, Causes, and Treatment
What Is Ulcerative Colitis?
<https://www.medicinenet.com/ulcerative_colitis_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Birth Control Methods, Side Effects, Effectiveness
Choose the Right Birth Control
<https://www.medicinenet.com/birth_control_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Atrial Fibrillation: Visual Guidelines to Causes, Tests and Treatment
Living With AFib
<https://www.medicinenet.com/atrial_fibrillation_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) Causes, Symptoms, Treatment
IBD or IBS: Know the Difference?
<https://www.medicinenet.com/inflammatory_bowel_disease_ibd_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT): Symptoms, Treatment & Prevention
What is Deep Vein Thrombosis?
<https://www.medicinenet.com/deep_vein_thrombosis_dvt_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Image Collection - Picture of Fungal Nail Infection
Put an End to Nail Fungus
<https://www.medicinenet.com/image-collection/fungal_nail_infection_picture/picture.htm>

Vitamin D Deficiency and Treatment
Vitamin D: How Much is Enough?
<https://www.medicinenet.com/nutritional_health_vitamin_d_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Colorectal Cancer (Colon Cancer): Symptoms, Signs, Screening, Stages,
and Treatment Options
Colorectal Cancer Risks
<https://www.medicinenet.com/colorectal_cancer_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Dental Health: Top Problems in Your Mouth
Shocking Diseases of the Mouth
<https://www.medicinenet.com/top_problems_in_your_mouth_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

IBS - Irritable Bowel Syndrome: Symptoms, Diet, Treatment
Coping With IBS
<https://www.medicinenet.com/ibs_pictures_slideshow_understanding_ibs/article.htm>

ADHD Symptoms in Children
Signs Your Child May Have ADHD
<https://www.medicinenet.com/adhd_children_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Psoriasis Types, Images, Treatments
The Stigma of Psoriasis
<https://www.medicinenet.com/psoriasis_symptoms_treatment_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Guide to Understanding Cancer
Guide to Understanding Cancer
<https://www.medicinenet.com/cancer_101_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
How Diabetes Can Affect Your Feet
Beware of Diabetes Foot Dangers
<https://www.medicinenet.com/diabetes_foot_problems_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

HIV AIDS Facts: Symptoms and Treatments
Living With HIV AIDS
<https://www.medicinenet.com/hiv_aids_myths_and_facts_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Heart Disease: Causes of a Heart Attack
Am I Having a Heart Attack?
<https://www.medicinenet.com/heart_disease_pictures_slideshow_visual_guide/article.htm>

Breast Cancer Diagnosis and Treatment
Breast Cancer: What Happens Next
<https://www.medicinenet.com/breast_cancer_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Lowering Your Cholesterol Levels
What Cholesterol Levels Mean
<https://www.medicinenet.com/cholesterol_levels_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Common Eye Problems and Infections
Diseases of the Eye
<https://www.medicinenet.com/eye_diseases_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>
Type 1 Diabetes: What Are The Symptoms?
Managing Type 1 Diabetes
<https://www.medicinenet.com/type_1_diabetes_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Psoriatic Arthritis Symptoms, Treatment, Images
Ease Psoriatic Arthritis Pain
<https://www.medicinenet.com/psoriatic_arthritis_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>

Dementia, Alzheimer's, and Aging Brains
Alzheimer's and Aging Brains
<https://www.medicinenet.com/dementia_pictures_slideshow/article.htm>


    Health Solutions From Our Sponsors

  * Cancer Treatments
    <https://www.webmd.com/cancer/common-cancers-16/discover-cancer-treatment-options>
  * Penis Curved When Erect
    <https://www.webmd.com/peyronies-treatment-option/treatment-option>
  * Live Better With Diabetes
    <https://www.webmd.com/a-to-z-guides/condition-15/diabetes/diabetes-pharmacy-care>
  * Therapy at Home? <https://www.webmd.com/post-acute-care/home-care>

  * Understand Immunotherapy
    <https://www.webmd.com/cancer-treatments/default.htm>
  * Painful Knees?
    <https://www.webmd.com/osteoarthritis/knee-pain-16/3-mistakes-new-treatment>
  * Is TAVR Right For You?
    <https://www.webmd.com/tavr-for-severe-aortic-stenosis-patient>
  * Bent Fingers?
    <https://www.webmd.com/dupuytrens-contracture-treatment/dupuytrens-contracture>

  * Immediate Pain Relief <https://www.webmd.com/brandcast/foot-pain-relief>
  * Wearable Health
    <https://www.webmd.com/healthy-aging/caregiver-17/connected-and-protected>
  * Lower Back Pain Relief
    <https://www.webmd.com/brandcast/foot-pain-relief>
  * Targeted Cancer Therapy
    <https://www.webmd.com/cancer-patient-care/default>

  * Get Cancer Answers <https://www.webmd.com/cancer-treatments/default.htm>
  * Managing Diabetes <https://www.webmd.com/continuous-glucose-monitoring>
  * Smartphone Health Apps
    <https://www.webmd.com/healthy-aging/caregiver-17/connected-and-protected>

  * NEWSLETTERS
  * <https://twitter.com/medicinenet>
  * <https://www.facebook.com/MedicineNet>
  * MedicineNet.com <https://www.medicinenet.com/>

  * This website is certified by Health On the Net Foundation. Click to
    verify. <https://www.hon.ch/HONcode/Conduct.html?HONConduct594277>
  *
    TRUSTe Privacy Certification
    <https://privacy.truste.com/privacy-seal/validation?rid=07326333-3522-463d-81bf-f00fd7171fff>
  * Ad Choices

Â©1996-2017 MedicineNet, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms of Use.
<https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=12596>

MedicineNet does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See
additional information
<https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=63261>.


        Health Categories

  * Medical Slideshows <https://www.medicinenet.com/slideshows/article.htm>
  * Diseases & Conditions
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/diseases_and_conditions/article.htm>
  * Symptoms & Signs
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/symptoms_and_signs/article.htm>
  * Procedures & Tests
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/procedures_and_tests/article.htm>
  * Medications <https://www.medicinenet.com/medications/article.htm>
  * Healthy Living <https://www.medicinenet.com/health_and_living/focus.htm>
  * Vitamins & Supplements
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/supplements-vitamins/article.htm>
  * Image Collection
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/image_collection/article.htm>
  * Quizzes <https://www.medicinenet.com/quizzes_a-z_list/article.htm>
  * MedTerms Dictionary
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/medterms-medical-dictionary/article.htm>
  * Pet Health <https://www.medicinenet.com/pets/pethealth/focus.htm>


        Popular Health Centers

  * Allergies <https://www.medicinenet.com/allergies/focus.htm>
  * Arthritis <https://www.medicinenet.com/arthritis/focus.htm>
  * Blood Pressure
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/high_blood_pressure/focus.htm>
  * Cancer <https://www.medicinenet.com/cancer/focus.htm>
  * Chronic Pain <https://www.medicinenet.com/chronic_pain/focus.htm>
  * Cold & Flu <https://www.medicinenet.com/cold_and_flu/focus.htm>
  * Depression <https://www.medicinenet.com/depression/focus.htm>
  * Diabetes <https://www.medicinenet.com/diabetes/focus.htm>
  * Digestion <https://www.medicinenet.com/digestion/focus.htm>
  * Health & Living
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/health_and_living/focus.htm>
  * Healthy Kids <https://www.medicinenet.com/healthy_kids/focus.htm>
  * Hearing & Ear <https://www.medicinenet.com/hearing/focus.htm>

  * Heart <https://www.medicinenet.com/heart/focus.htm>
  * HIV/AIDS <https://www.medicinenet.com/hiv/focus.htm>
  * Infectious Disease
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/infectious_disease/focus.htm>
  * Men's Health <https://www.medicinenet.com/mens_health/focus.htm>
  * Mental Health <https://www.medicinenet.com/mental_health/focus.htm>
  * Neurology <https://www.medicinenet.com/neurology/focus.htm>
  * Pregnancy <https://www.medicinenet.com/pregnancy/focus.htm>
  * Sexual Health <https://www.medicinenet.com/sexual_health/focus.htm>
  * Skin <https://www.medicinenet.com/skin/focus.htm>
  * Thyroid <https://www.medicinenet.com/thyroid/focus.htm>
  * Women's Health <https://www.medicinenet.com/womens_health/focus.htm>
  * More...
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/diseases_and_conditions/article.htm>


        MedicineNet

  * Privacy Policy
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=12507>
  * About Us
    <https://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=12510>
  * Contact Us
    <https://data.webmd.com/sdclive/SdcForm.aspx?FormId=MedNetContact>
  * Site Map <https://www.medicinenet.com/site_map/article.htm>
  * WebMD Corporate <https://www.wbmd.com/>
  * WebMD <https://www.webmd.com/>
  * WebMDRx <https://www.webmd.com/rx/>
  * Medscape <https://www.medscape.com/>
  * Medscape Reference <https://reference.medscape.com/>
  * eMedicineHealth <https://www.emedicinehealth.com/script/main/hp.asp>
  * RxList <https://www.rxlist.com/script/main/hp.asp>
  * OnHealth <https://www.onhealth.com/>
  * BootsWebMD <https://www.webmd.boots.com/>
  * Medscape France <https://www.medscape.fr/>
  * Medscape Germany <https://www.medscapemedizin.de/>

MedicineNet<javascript:void(0);>

<#>
