Skip to main content

<#content>

<http://www.who.int/en/>


      Access

  * Home Alt+0 <http://www.who.int/en/>
  * Navigation Alt+1 <#navigation>
  * Content Alt+2 <#main>

//


      Search

Search the WHO.int site

Submit

Advanced search
<http://search.who.int/search?ie=utf8&site=who&lr=lang_en&client=_en_r&proxystylesheet=_en_r&output=xml_no_dtd&oe=UTF-8&access=p&entqr=3&ud=1&proxycustom=%3CADVANCED/%3E>


//


      Navigation

  * Home

    <http://www.who.int/en/>
  * Health topics

    <http://www.who.int/topics/en/>
  * Data

    <http://www.who.int/entity/gho/en/>
  * Media centre

    <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/en/>
  * Publications

    <http://www.who.int/publications/en/>
  * Countries

    <http://www.who.int/countries/en/>
  * Programmes

    <http://www.who.int/entity/en/>
  * Governance

    <http://www.who.int/governance/en/>
  * About WHO

    <http://www.who.int/about/en/>


      Language

عربي

<http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs354/ar/index.html>
中文

<http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs354/zh/index.html>
English

<http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs354/en/index.html>
Français

<http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs354/fr/index.html>
Русский

<http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs354/ru/index.html>
Español

<http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs354/es/index.html>

RSSFollow on RSS

<http://www.who.int/about/licensing/rss/en/index.html>YouTubeFollow on
YouTube

<http://www.youtube.com/user/who?sub_confirmation=1>TwitterFollow on Twitter

<http://twitter.com/intent/follow?source=followbutton&variant=1.0&screen_name=who>FacebookFollow
on Facebook

<http://www.facebook.com/WHO>Google+Follow on Google Follow

<https://plus.google.com/+who/posts>InstagramFollow on Instagram

<http://instagram.com/who>


    Media centre


Menu

  * Media centre

    <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/en/>
  * News

    <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/news/en/>
      o News releases

        <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/news/releases/en/>
          + Previous years

            <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/news/releases/previous/en/>

      o Statements

        <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/news/statements/en/>
          + Previous years

            <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/news/statements/previous/en/>

      o Notes for the media

        <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/news/notes/en/>
          + Previous years

            <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/news/notes/previous/en/>
  * Commentaries

    <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/commentaries/en/>
      o 2016

        <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/commentaries/2016/en/>
      o 2015

        <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/commentaries/2015/en/>
      o 2014

        <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/commentaries/2014/en/>
  * Events

    <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/events/en/>
      o Official WHO health days

        <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/events/official_days/en/>
      o Meetings and consultations

        <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/events/meetings/en/>
  * Fact sheets

    <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/factsheets/en/>
  * Fact files

    <http://www.who.int/features/factfiles/en/>
  * Questions & answers

    <http://www.who.int/features/qa/en/>
  * Features

    <http://www.who.int/features/en/>
  * Multimedia

    <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/multimedia/en/>
  * Contacts

    <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/contacts/en/>


  West Nile virus

Fact sheet N°354
July 2011

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      Key facts

  * West Nile virus can cause a fatal neurological disease in humans.
  * However, approximately 80% of people who are infected will not show
    any symptoms.
  * West Nile virus is mainly transmitted to people through the bites of
    infected mosquitoes.
  * The virus can cause severe disease and death in horses.
  * Vaccines are available for use in horses but not yet available for
    people.
  * Birds are the natural hosts of West Nile virus.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

West Nile Virus (WNV) can cause neurological disease and death in
people. WNV is commonly found in Africa, Europe, the Middle East, North
America and West Asia. WNV is maintained in nature in a cycle involving
transmission between birds and mosquitoes. Humans, horses and other
mammals can be infected.

West Nile Virus (WNV) is a member of the /flavivirus/ genus and belongs
to the Japanese encephalitis antigenic complex of the family
/Flaviviridae/.


      Outbreaks

West Nile Virus (WNV) was first isolated in a woman in the West Nile
district of Uganda in 1937. It was identified in birds (crows and
columbiformes) in Nile delta region in 1953. Before 1997 WNV was not
considered pathogenic for birds, but at that time in Israel a more
virulent strain caused the death of different bird species presenting
signs of encephalitis and paralysis. Human infections attributable to
WNV have been reported in many countries in the World for over 50 years.

In 1999 a WNV circulating in Israel and Tunisia was imported in New York
producing a large and dramatic outbreak that spread throughout the
continental United States of America (USA) in the following years. The
WNV outbreak in USA (1999-2010) highlighted that importation and
establishment of vector-borne pathogens outside their current habitat
represent a serious danger to the world.

The largest outbreaks occurred in Greece, Israel, Romania, Russia and
USA. Outbreak sites are on major birds migratory routes. In its original
range, WNV was prevalent throughout Africa, parts of Europe, Middle
East, West Asia, and Australia. Since its introduction in 1999 into USA,
the virus has spread and is now widely established from Canada to Venezuela.


      Transmission

Human infection is most often the result of bites from infected
mosquitoes. Mosquitoes become infected when they feed on infected birds,
which circulate the virus in their blood for a few days. The virus
eventually gets into the mosquito's salivary glands. During later blood
meals (when mosquitoes bite), the virus may be injected into humans and
animals, where it can multiply and possibly cause illness.

The virus may also be transmitted through contact with other infected
animals, their blood, or other tissues.

A very small proportion of human infections have occurred through organ
transplant, blood transfusions and breast milk. There is one reported
case of transplacental (mother-to-child) WNV transmission.

To date, no human-to-human transmission of WNV through casual contact
has been documented, and no transmission of WNV to health care workers
has been reported when standard infection control precautions have been
put in place.

Transmission of WNV to laboratory workers has been reported.


      Signs and symptoms

Infection with WNV is either asymptomatic (no symptoms) in around 80% of
infected people, or can lead to West Nile fever or severe West Nile
disease.

About 20% of people who become infected with WNV will develop West Nile
fever. Symptoms include fever, headache, tiredness, and body aches,
nausea, vomiting, occasionally with a skin rash (on the trunk of the
body) and swollen lymph glands.

The symptoms of severe disease (also called neuroinvasive disease, such
as West Nile encephalitis or meningitis or West Nile poliomyelitis)
include headache, high fever, neck stiffness, stupor, disorientation,
coma, tremors, convulsions, muscle weakness, and paralysis. It is
estimated that approximately 1 in 150 persons infected with the West
Nile virus will develop a more severe form of disease. Serious illness
can occur in people of any age, however people over the age of 50 and
some immunocompromised persons (for example, transplant patients) are at
the highest risk for getting severely ill when infected with WNV.

The incubation period is usually 3 to 14 days.


      Diagnosis

West Nile virus can be diagnosed by a number of different tests:

  * IgG antibody sero-conversion (or significant increase in antibody
    titers) in two serial specimen collected at a one week interval by
    enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA);
  * IgM antibody capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA);
  * neutralisation assays;
  * viral detection by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction
    (RT-PCR) assay, and
  * virus isolation by cell culture.

IgM can be detected in nearly all cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum
specimens received from WNV infected patients at the time of their
clinical presentation. Serum IgM antibody may persist for more than a year.


      Treatment and vaccine

Treatment is supportive for patients with neuro-invasive West Nile
virus, often involving hospitalization, intravenous fluids, respiratory
support, and prevention of secondary infections. No vaccine is available
for humans.


      Vector and animal hosts

WN virus is maintained in nature in a mosquito-bird-mosquito
transmission cycle. Mosquitoes of the genus /Culex/ are generally
considered the principal vectors of WNV, in particular /Cx. Pipiens/.
WNV is maintained in mosquito populations through vertical transmission
(adults to eggs).

Birds are the reservoir hosts of WNV. In Europe, Africa, Middle East and
Asia, mortality in birds associated with WNV infection is rare. In
striking contrast, the virus is highly pathogenic for birds in the
Americas. Members of the crow family (/Corvidae/) are particularly
susceptible, but virus has been detected in dead and dying birds of more
than 250 species. Birds can be infected by a variety of routes other
than mosquito bites, and different species may have different potential
for maintaining the transmission cycle.

Horses, just like humans, are “dead-end” hosts, meaning that while they
become infected, they do not spread the infection. Symptomatic
infections in horses are also rare and generally mild, but can cause
neurologic disease, including fatal encephalomyelitis.


      Prevention


        Preventing transmission in horses

Since WNV outbreaks in animals precede human cases, the establishment of
an active animal health surveillance system to detect new cases in birds
and horses is essential in providing early warning for veterinary and
human public health authorities. In the Americas, it is important to
help the community by reporting dead birds to local authorities.

Vaccines have been developed for horses. Treatment is supportive and
consistent with standard veterinary practices for animals infected with
a viral agent.


        Reducing the risk of infection in people

In the absence of a vaccine, the only way to reduce infection in people
is by raising awareness of the risk factors and educating people about
the measures they can take to reduce exposure to the virus.

Public health educational messages should focus on the following:

  * Reducing the risk of mosquito transmission. Efforts to prevent
    transmission should first focus on personal and community protection
    against mosquito bites through the use of mosquito nets, personal
    insect repellent, by wearing light coloured clothing (long-sleeved
    shirts and trousers) and by avoiding outdoor activity at peak biting
    times. In addition community programmes should encourage communities
    to destroy mosquito breeding sites in residential areas.
  * Reducing the risk of animal-to-human transmission. Gloves and other
    protective clothing should be worn while handling sick animals or
    their tissues, and during slaughtering and culling procedures.
  * Reducing the risk of transmission through blood transfusion and
    organ transplant. Blood and organ donation restrictions and
    laboratory testing should be considered at the time of the outbreak
    in the affected areas after assessing the local/regional
    epidemiological situation.


        Vector Control

Effective prevention of human WNV infections depends on the development
of comprehensive, integrated mosquito surveillance and control
programmes in areas where the virus occurs. Studies should identify
local mosquito species that play a role in WNV transmission, including
those that might serve as a “bridge” from birds to human beings.
Emphasis should be on integrated control measures including source
reduction (with community participation), water management, chemicals,
and biological control methods.


        Preventing infection in health-care settings

Health-care workers caring for patients with suspected or confirmed WNV
infection, or handling specimens from them, should implement standard
infection control precautions. Samples taken from people and animals
with suspected WNV infection should be handled by trained staff working
in suitably equipped laboratories.


      WHO response

The WHO regional office for Europe and WHO region of the Americas are
intensively supporting WNV surveillance and outbreak response activities
respectively in Europe and in North America, Latin America and the
Caribbean, together with country offices and international partners.

AddThis Sharing Buttons
Share to PrintPrintShare to EmailEmailShare to FacebookFacebookShare to
TwitterTwitterShare to Google+Google+Share to MoreAddthis


      For more information contact:

WHO Media centre
E-mail: mediainquiries@who.int <mailto:mediainquiries@who.int>


      Related links

  * Mosquito-borne diseases
    <http://www.who.int/entity/neglected_diseases/vector_ecology/mosquito-borne-diseases/en/index.html>

  * Standard precautions in health care
    <http://www.who.int/entity/csr/resources/publications/standardprecautions/en/index.html>

  * Blood safety
    pdf, 212kb
    <http://www.who.int/entity/medicines/publications/WHO_CCs2nd-IVD_MeetingReport.pdf>

  * Vector control and WHO Pesticide Evaluation Scheme: "WHOPES"
    <http://www.who.int/entity/whopes/en/index.html>
  * West Nile virus in the USA <http://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/dvbid/westnile/>
  * West Nile virus in Canada
    <http://www.health.alberta.ca/health-info/west-nile-virus.html>


    You are here:

  * Media centre <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/en/>
  * Fact sheets <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/factsheets/en/>


    Quick Links


      Sitemap

  * Home <http://www.who.int/en/index.html>
  * Health topics <http://www.who.int/topics/en/index.html>
  * Data <http://www.who.int/entity/gho/en/index.html>
  * Media centre <http://www.who.int/entity/mediacentre/en/index.html>
  * Publications <http://www.who.int/publications/en/index.html>
  * Countries <http://www.who.int/countries/en/index.html>
  * Programmes and projects <http://www.who.int/entity/en/index.html>
  * Governance <http://www.who.int/governance/en/index.html>
  * About WHO <http://www.who.int/about/en/index.html>


      Help and Services

  * Contacts <http://www.who.int/about/contacthq/en/index.html>
  * FAQs <http://www.who.int/suggestions/faq/en/index.html>
  * Employment <http://www.who.int/entity/employment/en/index.html>
  * Feedback <http://www.who.int/suggestions/en/index.html>
  * Privacy <http://www.who.int/about/privacy/en/index.html>
  * E-mail scams <http://www.who.int/about/scamalert/en/index.html>


      WHO Regional Offices

  * WHO African Region <http://www.afro.who.int/>
  * WHO Region of the Americas <http://www.paho.org/>
  * WHO South-East Asia Region <http://www.searo.who.int/>
  * WHO European Region <http://www.euro.who.int/>
  * WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region <http://www.emro.who.int/>
  * WHO Western Pacific Region <http://www.wpro.who.int/>

RSSFollow on RSS

<http://www.who.int/about/licensing/rss/en/index.html>YouTubeFollow on
YouTube

<http://www.youtube.com/user/who?sub_confirmation=1>TwitterFollow on Twitter

<http://twitter.com/intent/follow?source=followbutton&variant=1.0&screen_name=who>FacebookFollow
on Facebook

<http://www.facebook.com/WHO>Google+Follow on Google Follow

<https://plus.google.com/+who/posts>InstagramFollow on Instagram

<http://instagram.com/who>

<https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=uk.co.adappt.whoapp&hl=en>

<https://itunes.apple.com/gb/app/who-info/id895463794?mt=8>

© WHO 2017 <http://www.who.int/about/copyright/en/>

Back to top <#>
Email Address

Sign up for WHO updates

<#>

loading

